You guys in this video we're going to start looking at pages and pull and menus.
OK.
So in addition to creating Posten WordPress we can also create pages.
So if we go to the back end here and we go cook on pages and see we have a sample page let's go ahead
and create a new one and I'll just call this about and then I'm just going to grab some content I'll
grab two paragraphs.
All right.
And let's just click publish.
OK.
So we have an About page and we have this sample page.
Let's create one more and we'll call it services.
OK.
Now we need some kind of navigation.
All right so let's go ahead and do that now in order to use the menus the menu system we need to edit
the function speech P file because right now if we go to appearance there's no menus option.
OK so let's open up functions up here and we can go into this.
This theme set up function that we created.
And what say register on the score.
Now I've underscore menus.
OK so we can use this and I want to do that.
And then we want to pass in an array
and we're going to set primary
and then this will be the readable version.
We're going to use this double underscore function.
I don't need quotes here though.
And what this does this is a localization function has to do with using multi languages in in multiple
languages in your field.
So we'll say primary menu save.
And now if we go to the back end and reload and go to appearance now you'll see we have this menu option
.
OK if we click that let's say create menu
and see we have a home.
Now you can see by default it has all the pages on the site and you can remove some if you want and
if you want to add pages you can easily just check it click add to menu.
So we're just going to keep what we have here.
And down here where it says theme locations we want to make sure you choose primary menu.
All right so we'll save that.
All right and if we go to the front end to reload we're not going to see anything yet because we haven't
included it in the in our header file.
That's what we want to put it.
OK because we want it on every page.
So let's go let's go right underneath the header.
And what are going to do here is going to create the nav tag will give it a class of main nav.
All right.
And then we're going to wrap it in a container
.
OK.
And then all we have to do here is we're going to open up some peach peach tags and I'm going to create
a variable called args and this is just going to hold an array of arguments which we only need one for
now.
And that's going to be the theme location.
We need to we're basically specifying what menu we want to put here and that's going to be primary which
is the only one we have.
All right.
And then what we can do is we can call a function called W.P. nav menus and we just want to pass in
.
I'm sorry I just mean you know us and we want to pass in that args variable.
So I'll save that.
Go to the front end reload and there's our menu.
OK so it has all the pages that we put if we want to go and remove one let's say sample page we want
to remove save reload and now that's gone.
All right.
And just to style this a little bit.
Let's go ahead and go to style C Ss and let's go down here and we'll say the meaning now of
let's give it a background
we'll do a black background
color white.
Now we need to style the list items.
So let's say main Nav. ally first we want to remove the bullet will say list style none.
And we want to float these to the left and let's do padding right.
Fifteen pixels.
And then we want to do the lengths.
Make sure those are white.
It will remove the text decoration as well.
OK let's take a look and let's do the.
Well we want to remove the default margin and padding
.
OK.
And then we'll add some padding to the main that save 5 pixels.
And there we go.
I have a little navigation menu.
If I click on about it's going to take us to about services.
All right.
Now notice when we go to about it has it's formatted the same exact way as the index ph p.
All right as if it was a post and it's not it's a page.
We're not going to want this.
The meta data we're also not going to want a read more link.
So what we need to do is add another page to our theme.
So we're going to create a new file and we're going to save it as Page dot THP.
Now if I go back and reload it's blank because it's looking at this file.
So what we can do is get the code that's in index ph P and use that as a starting point.
All right.
And first thing we'll do is let's remove the link from the title because we we don't want to go anywhere
else.
Also the read more we can get rid of that completely.
And it also has an excerpt and we don't want that we want the whole thing.
So we're going to change that to the content.
All right.
And then the metal we can get rid of that whole div save it.
Let's take a look.
And now it looks more like a regular web page.
OK same thing with services.
So that's how you can create pages and how you can target the markup for that page.
You can also create custom pages custom templates so you can kind of have different layouts for different
pages but we're going to get into that probably in the next project.
All right.
There's a lot there's a lot more to building a theme there's a lot more you can do that we're not going
to get into in this project but I just want to cover just the basics in this project.
All right so we can now have pages we have a menu
in the next video I want to get into widget locations.
OK I want to be able to have a sidebar with widgets.
All right.
So we'll get into that in the next video